Workbench window rendering very slow when restored from minimized state if previously maximized
Build Identifier: I20110620-1631
I have noticed that the workbench window is very slow to re-render when the windows is restored from a minimized state if the window was previously maximized.
It is much faster to re-render if the window was NOT maximized before it was minimized.
I will be attaching a screencast that demonstrates the issue with the Eclipse 4.1 IDE.
The same behavior is exhibited with prior versions of the IDE (such as 3.6 or 3.7).
The behavior can even be seen with the very simple RCP mail demo application.
It's not quite as bad there but definitely noticeable.
I am logging this issue primarily because it also affects an RCP application I am working on and it affect that application to a greater degree than the Elipse IDE.
It looks pretty bad.
I suspect other RCP applications must be experiencing the same issue.
In the attached screencast I first minimize and restore the application several times from a maximized state.
Then, I switch the app to be non-maximized and minimize/restore a few more times.
Finally, I maximize again and minimize/restore a couple more times.
You should see how the minimize/restore when the application is NOT maximized is much quicker.
I've done a little searching to see if someone else has already logged this issue but I didn't find a bug that quite matched.
I am sort of surprised at this so maybe I just didn't find the right one.
I apologize if I am logging a duplicate.
Reproducible: Always
Steps to Reproduce:
1.Open Eclipse IDE
2.Maximize workbench window
3.Minimize workbench window
4.Restore workbench window and observe issue
5.Repeat steps 3,4. Isssue always occurs
6.Slightly decrease size of window such that it is not maximized, but nearly the size it would be if it were maximized
7.Repeat steps 3, 4. Rendering is much quicker.
I would expect restore from a minimized state if the window was maximized to be as quick or at least nearly as quick.