Unhandled event loop exception (Widget is disposed) when using "Open Type Hierarchy
With Eclipse 3.0M8 on Solaris 9 and HP-UX11.11 plantform, "Open Type Hierarchy"
for a Java interface may cause "Unhandle event loop exception".
The following
is the procedure to reproduce the problem:
1.Download the 3.0M8 SWT Examples zip file from the eclipse.org site and load
it on to Eclipse workbench.
2.Create a Java project and call it "JUnit".
3.In the Packages Explorer view, select JUnit project and from its context
menu "Import->Zip file".
4.Browse to junit37src.jar file in
<eclipse>/plugins/org.eclipse.jdt.ui.examples.projects/archive/junit/ directory.
Select file name and click "Ok".
5.Click the "Select All" button to make sure that all the files are selected
in the folder.
Ensure that the destination folder is "JUnit".
Click "Finish"
and click "Yes" on the question box concerning .classpath file.
6.In the Package Explorer view, expand the junit.framework package, and select
the "TestCase.java" class.
From the Workbench menu select 'Navigate > Open Type
Hierarchy' menu option.
7.Stacked on top of Package Explorer the Hierarchy view now opens with the
TestCase class displayed.
The Hierarchy view has two panes, the top pane shows
the inheritance structure, and the bottom pane shows the currently selected
Type's members.
8.Make sure that in the Hierarchy view, "Show the Type Hierarchy" button is
engaged in the local toolbar.
9.In the Package Explorer view, select the "Test.java" class.
From the
Workbench menu select 'Navigate > Open Type Hierarchy' menu option.
10.Stacked on top of Package Explorer the Hierarchy view now opens with the
Test class displayed.
The top pane shows the inheritance structure for the Test
class.
However the bottom pane shows the members for the TestCase class instead
(which is incorrect).
The "Unhandled event loop exception" is also occurred at
this point.
11.Click the "Show the Supertype Hierarchy" button or the "Show the Subtype
Hierarchy" button from the local toolbar will provide correct members display.