[Import/Export] Add 3rd Option for Export to File System
The servlet spec in the J2EE spec calls for a WEB-INF directory under the
document root with a classes directory under that. I want to export my Java
classes to this classes directory. Currently that is only possible if my
project in Eclipse just happens to be named "WEB-INF". The two options
currently available for exporting to the file system are:
"Create directory structure for files"
or
"Create only selected directories"
With the first option, there doesn't seem to be any way to select only
directories from a top level package and lower. If a checkbox for a directory
corresponding to a package is clicked, the checkboxes for the directories
about it - including the project directory - are also filled in with gray
checkmarks. During the export, the project directory is (unwillingly in my
case) created. So what one ends up with when one attempts to export to the
classes directory is:
doc-root
WEB-INF
classes
Project_Name
top-level-package
sub-package
sub-package
class
class
I have to manually open the Project_Name folder in the above hierarchy, cut
the top-level-package, go up a level, paste it where it belongs under classes,
and then deleted the unwanted Project_Name directory.
The second option just dumps all the classes into one directory, so unless I
only use a single package in my project or export the classes separately for
each package (even more unworkable than the above cut-and-paste), this option
can't be used.
This problem is THE single biggest impediment to my efficient use of Eclipse.
SUGGESTION:
Add a 3rd option, similar to the first:
"Create directory structure for files without project directory"
Or, it could be made even more general:
"Create directory structure for files with only explicity selected
directories"
In the first variant, just the project directory itself is left out, and the
export is from the top level directory under the project on down. This would
work fine with exports where the target is the WEB-INF/classes directory.
Nothing in the UI would have to be changed beyond adding the option.
In the second variant, only directories with *black* checkmarks (and below),
not gray implicitly marked ones above, are exported to the target directory.
In the case of Java classes, one could export to target subpackages. This
raises an issue however of how to allow the user to select directories and
files to be exported. Currently, selecting a file implicity selects all the
directories above it, filling in the checkboxes with gray checkmarks, and
selecting a directory explicity selects all directories and files below it.
The user would have to select a directory first, and then unselect the
directories and files below it that he/she didn't want, which would be
tedious. It would be useful if there were some way to select a given file,
then mark the directory above it from which level the director