[New Look] 'Show multiple editor tabs' should be on by default
200401290841 I strongly believe that the new 'single-tab editor' feature is something that is only for power-users who know all of the keyboard accelerators.
As such, it should not be the default setting.
New users (and old users familiar with the previous multi-tab default) will think "Where did my other editor go?".
(Old users will also think "What happened to single-click editor navigation?") In fact, I will go so far as to say that the single tab feature is only useful to "power-users who know all of the keyboard accelerators and who have very long class name (or filename) prefixes that are all the same for l
arge groups of classes".
As I 
- and arguably, most developers 
- do not fit into that category, I don't think it should be the default.
To reiterate, here is a list of "reasons why the single-tab editor feature should not be the default".
This list was originally in an email that was arguing for multi-tab editor capability, but now that it has been added, it needs to be the default, and the same old arguments still apply: a) New users, and old lazy users like me who use the mouse for navigation, don't know the keyboard accelerators.
And they never will.
The 1-tab will therefore seriously annoy a large group of users.
b) New users won't even realize that they can switch to another editor 
- they will wonder where their other editor went.
c) Can't see "at a glance" which editors are open.
d) Can't see "at a glance" which editors have changes.
e) The list of accelerators (keyboard shortcuts) is buried in a submenu 
- which is the appropriate place for them, but which makes them more difficult to find when a user is scanning the menus looking for shortcuts, because the typical method is to scan for accelerator text to the right of menu items.
f) Editor navigation using the mouse used to be only one "visual cue" mouse click, whereas with 1-tab, you need to do mouse motion, click, then an extra mouse motion and an extra mouse click, making this very common interaction take twice as long as before.
g) Editor navigation using the keyboard is difficult also, because I have to use 2 hands to type the accelerator (ctrl+F6).
(I have small hands, and I just cannot do ctrl+F6 very easily with only one hand).